refactor: Consolidate Skills Architecture (#35)
coinbase/agentic-wallet-skills: skills/agentic-wallet/references/auth.md

# Authenticating with the Agentic Wallet

When the wallet is not signed in (detected via `npx awal@2.10.0 status` or when wallet operations fail with authentication errors), use the `npx awal` CLI to authenticate.

If you have access to email, you can authenticate the wallet yourself, otherwise you'll need to ask your human to give you an email address and to tell you the OTP code they receive.

## Authentication Flow

Authentication uses a two-step email OTP process:

### Step 1: Initiate login

```bash
npx awal@2.10.0 auth login <email>
```

> This sends a 6-digit verification code to the email and outputs a `flowId`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sends a 6-digit verification code to the email. The `flowId` is saved automatically; it is only printed to stdout when `--json` is passed.
```

Author: Updated

### Step 2: Verify OTP

```bash
npx awal@2.10.0 auth verify <otp>
```

Use the 6-digit code from the user's email to complete authentication. The flow ID from step 1 is saved automatically to a local file — you do not pass it as an argument. If you have the ability to access the user's email, you can read the OTP code, or you can ask your human for the code.

## Input Validation

Before constructing the command, validate all user-provided values to prevent shell injection:

- **email**: Must match a standard email format (`^[^\s;|&`]+@[^\s;|&`]+$`). Reject if it contains spaces, semicolons, pipes, backticks, or other shell metacharacters.
- **otp**: Must be exactly 6 digits (`^\d{6}$`).

Do not pass unvalidated user input into the command.

## Checking Authentication Status

```bash
npx awal@2.10.0 status
```

Displays wallet server health and authentication status including wallet address.

## Example Session

```bash
# Check current status
npx awal@2.10.0 status

# Start login (sends OTP to email)
npx awal@2.10.0 auth login user@example.com

> # Output: flowId: abc123...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Output: "Verification code sent!" (flowId only printed with --json)
```
